---
title: 5 Areas To Explore Before Accepting A Sales Promotion
date: 2016-01-29 22:18 UTC
tags:
author: Brandon Malson
---
It's pretty common to come across a business where the Sales Manager or VP of Sales once upon a time was the company's top sales producer. That approach works often, but more times than not it ends quickly and the damage seems unexpected. Or worse yet, the underperformance continues for way too long, creating a confused culture, high pressure, high turnover environment, frustrated and disengaged employees who have lost trust in the process. Before accepting that "long overdue" promotion and stable income you might want to consider revisiting a few areas of operational complaint we hear from angry sales leaders or company owners. The transition from sales stud to sales manager doesn't always have to be that painful. These are 5 areas of focus to explore when navigating the pros and cons of a structured management role versus the highflying sales hunter mentality we've all come to love.

1. **Staying Disciplined.** Can you think of ONE time you didn't feel particularly excited to finish prospecting? Stay true to your schedule and do what you say you're going to do. Early morning exercise, networking, journaling, and getting proper rest are all easy tasks to let fall by the wayside. As the sales hunter a "flexible" schedule can be tolerated, but now the needs of the team outweigh personal individualism. The days of "do&nbsp;what you want, when you want" have ended. Establish a daily routine, put it in your calendar, and stick to it.

2. **Leading By Example, Not Fear.** Naturally, by taking on management duties some feel entitled to no longer have "behavior numbers" to hit due to the overwhelming time demand from your team. When the going gets tough you can no longer go out and make a big sale to make up for the down month. Now you have to figure out ways to motivate your team to perform at that same high level. With less time to prospect there still needs to be time for your own post/planning and staying accountable with minimum weekly behaviors. Show up to scheduled training sessions, internal meetings, and make time for team members even when there seems to be none left to give. The alternative, which is leading by fear, works…but seems exhausting and typically leads to poor company moral, weak culture, and less loyalty.

3. **Success is the Activity, Not the Result.**&nbsp;Focusing on the end picture is much more exciting than the feelings one gets just before they start making weekly cold calls. No one actually likes calling strangers and asking them to buy something while they're in the middle of their own busy day. Or battling the rejection from a veteran gatekeeper who's out to prove a point. Optimism is necessary for the ego sometimes, but being true to yourself and establishing realistic annual, quarterly, monthly, weekly, and daily minimum behaviors for yourself is just as important as having each team member establish a playbook built from their own beliefs. You don't have to love it, but certainly have to do it, stay vulnerable, and be held accountable.

4. **Don't be a Hero, Villain, or Victim.** Whose data matters? Not yours. Selling is not a place to get your emotional needs met, just a place to go to the bank. Luckily, the same rules apply for being in a management role. In order for someone to truly change their behavior the idea, plan, and consequences must come from their mouth, not yours. Preaching long drawn out stories or bringing up how you did it when you first started out doesn't work. Using third party stories and allowing your team to self discover solutions and implementation plans creates a confident team atmosphere.

5. **Identity Leads Role Performance.**&nbsp;A good chunk of your time as a manager should be spent on making sure each team member maintains a high level of self worth. I don't mean you need to handhold or give a false sense of hope, but rather allowing your team to fail on their own and learn from mistakes. The business and selling world can be brutal making it easy for someone to get discouraged or even give up at any time. Staying calm and not letting the small stuff get to you is a lot easier said than done. There are several exercises based on I/R Theory and staying positive, and most of them are effective.&nbsp;

Making the transition from sales executive to team leader can be a rewarding and impactful opportunity, if executed correctly. Keeping a positive attitude, doing the behaviors, weekly training, and doing what you say you're going to do will take you a long way. As a professional recruiting firm we are in constant connection with both high producers and great leaders. Contact our team if you're thinking of making a move confidentially or you're a leader wanting to strengthen the team with more top talent.